=head1 NAME

Provision::DSL::Manual::Tricks

=head1 CONFIG FILE TRICKS

=head2 speedup local preparation with minicpan

If you have set up a minicpan mirror on your machine, you can force the
F<cpanm> utility to access this mirror instead of loading every module
from the internet. Simply add a simple environment key. Please be tolerant
with users who do not have a minicpan mirror.

    # inside your config file:
    
    local => {
        environment => {
            (-d "$ENV{HOME}/minicpan"
                ? (PERL_CPANM_OPT => 
                        "--mirror $ENV{HOME}/minicpan --mirror-only")
                : ()),
    },


=head1 PROVISION FILE TRICKS

=head2 Put simple repetitive tasks into a provision file

Assumed you have to add a F</etc/foo.conf> file with the same content to
a couple of machines. Prepare a provision file F<foo.pl> like:

    #!/usr/bin/env perl
    use Provision::DSL;
    
    File '/etc/foo.conf' => {
        content => 'whatever',
    };
    
    Done;

And fire a script for every machine:

    $ provision.pl user@hostname foo.pl

=head2 use templates and include

If you like to deploy a server, you probably will have to install more
machines soon. In order to allow reusing your work, create a simple
provision script like this:

    #!/usr/bin/env perl
    use Provision::DSL;
    
    include var, SUFFIX => 'dev', IP => '62.128.10.208';
    include packages;
    include dir, FOO_DIRS => [qw(abc def ghi)],
                 BAR_DIRS => [qw(wer tzu iop)];
    include perlbrew;
    include modules;
    include webserver;
    
    Done;

Interesting pieces are declarations like C<include var, ...> which defines
all key/value pairs as C<<<our $SUFFIX='dev';>>> variables and allows to use
the variables inside the included and all subsequently included templates.

=head2 make templates versatile and tolerant

Returning to the example above, if you omit the definition C<BAR_DIRS> because
you do not need them, what happens? Errors because you may use a variable
which is not defined.

Simply use (ugly) constructs like

    my $x = ${ ${main::}{FOO_DIRS} } // [];

in order to get a default value in case of the absence of a variable. Not
very beautiful but gives the effect you like to get.

=head1 MISC

=head2 use a ssh config file

Many ssh options can get simplified if they are stored in a config file,
typically residing in F<<< $HOME/.ssh/config >>>.

An entry for a machine you want to access using the name 'box' via a special
port on yout loopback interface could look like this:

    #
    # my virtual-box can get accessed with the name 'box'
    #
    Host box
    Hostname 127.0.0.1
    Port 2222
    IdentityFile ~/.ssh/id_rsa
    User your_name_here


=head1 AUTHOR

Wolfgang Kinkeldei

=head1 LICENSE

This library is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
